---
layout: subjectreview_archive
title: Subject Review
hidden: true
---
Here's a list of my past subjects, full summaries about them and whether you should try them out too. Each subject is rated with Difficulty, Time Commitment, Enjoyability, and my mark in the course.

1. Difficulty refers to my personal experience in terms of how technically challenging the subject was. The main contributing factors for this category include assignment and lab difficulty, course expectations for students, depth of content explored etc.
2. Time Commitment scores up to 7 refer specifically to the approximate number of weekly hours I spent on the subject on average. Time Commitment scores above 7 would have taken me between 8-15 hours a week linearly distributed on that range.
3. Enjoyability refers to how fun and interactive a subject was. I have made this scale very lenient and the main factors affecting this score are lecturer quality, student engagement in course content, applicability of course skills outside of university (because learning cool stuff is fun).
4. My mark in the course is the numeric grade out of 100 that I received in the course. Note that 85+ refers to a high distinction which around 10% of students achieve in most subjects.

Each subject also has an overall challenge tag (easy, medium, hard) which is my overall opinion on how challenging a subject is taking into account every factor listed above (courses with high enjoyability will tend to have lower challenge ratings because they are more fun and I would recommend them more).

**NOTE: every course here pertains to my studies at UNSW. For courses I studied at Penn, refer to my projects on [Tiny ML](https://dhruvagrawal.org/posts/tiny-ml-and-solving-problems) and [Data Science](https://dhruvagrawal.org/posts/designing-the-ideal-online-course).