---
layout: single
categories: subjects
tags: subjects
title: MATH3411 - Information, Codes and Ciphers
subjectreview: true
---

Difficulty: 7/10 · Time Commitment: 6/10 · Enjoyability: 10/10 · Mark: 87

## Summary

I did MATH3411 (Information, Codes and Ciphers) in Term 3 2021. The subject is an introductory subject on code correction, data compression and encryption. Although it is a Level 3 subject, it provides a very high level mathematical understanding of each topic and this makes it very enjoyable and suitable for everyone! This was the best course I have taken in any subject ever and the lecturer, Dr Britz, provided a huge amount of course support and explained each concept in a fascinating and easy-to-understand manner.

### Positives

- Extremely fun course with lots of real-life examples
- Best lecturer ever (Dr Britz) who puts lots of time and effort into making the course fun
- A great introduction to the mathematical side of data compression and encryption

### Negatives

- A bit of a learning curve for 1st year students (the course is quite a bit harder than 1st year maths courses)
- The 3 lab tests and final exam make the course stressful during busier periods of uni

## In-depth

### Structure

MATH3411 is split into 7 chapters spanning error detecting/correcting codes, data compression, information theory and cryptography. There are 3 lab tests scattered throughout the term after each *major* topic. I found the first 3 weeks of the course to be significantly harder than anything afterwards. The final exam has a similar structure to each lab test, however, covers every topic briefly.

Every exam has almost the same format so it is very easy to spend a few days studying for those particular questions and avoiding the topics that aren't prevalent in past papers. Similarly, lab tests have a practice version which uses the same question bank as the actual lab test. I attempted each lab test 15-20 times before completing the actual lab test to make sure I was completely confident with each style of question.

### Lectures and Tutorials

COMP1511 has really engaging tutorials with a lot of examples and interaction between students and the lecturer even when done completely online. I enjoyed tutorials because they were a good way to meet new people and it was helpful to have a tutor at labs for more difficult questions. For that reason, I would definitely recommend attending in-person labs.

### Reflections

Reflections were one of the most tedious parts of the course. The concept was great and it was an easy way to earn marks for the course, however, the idea of long reflections following a strict template structure made it seem more like an assessment rather than a well-thought out moment of insight.

I completely agree that reflections are an integral part of a course like COMP1511, especially when many students are learning how to code for the first time. However, there are many elements that should be changed before reimplementing this into the course:

1. Less structure - Rather than having a billion different questions for students to answer, I think it would be much more effective if each reflection had a list of *optional* questions to help students provoke insight into their progress.

2. Frequency of reflections - I think there should be fewer reflections with more time dedicated to each one. The most beneficial part of reflections was being able to discuss them with the tutors at labs. This actually helped me gauge my progress in the course and was enjoyable. However, these were often brief and more oriented towards marks rather than the reflection itself. Having 3 reflections throughout the term would be so much more beneficial in this regard.

### Advice

1. *Make sure to start assignments early.*
2. *Stay up-to-date with content.* The course has a really uneven pacing and while the first few weeks aren't content heavy, once pointers and linked lists are introduced, there is so much more to do and much less time to understand content. It's important not to be caught off-guard by the really slow pacing in the first few weeks because this does accelerate later on in the course.
3. *Ask lots of questions.* Tutors are really friendly so asking lots of questions, whether they are about content in the course or general advice about conputer science, is really helpful.
4. *Enjoy the content.* COMP1511 is an introduction to programming for most people in the course. Computer science is so interesting and broad so it's really important to have fun and keep exploring outside the course.
